# Mechanical-Networks
This is the public repository for MATLAB code regarding the conformational design and control of mechanical networks

construct_conic: This function takes as input a set of coordinates for specified node positions and motions in 2 or 3 dimensions, and outputs the conic matrix corresponding to the solution space (in paramterized coordinates) of unspecified node positions and motions that satisfy linearized distance constraints.

visualize_conic: This function takes as input specified node positions and instantaneous motions, as well as matrices specifying the range of coordinates to visualize the solution space. this function is a visualization tool, and will display the solution space of unspecified node positions and motions that satisfy the linearized distance constraints. Inputs must be in 2 or 3 spatial dimensions, and the solution space must have dimension at least 1, and no greater than the number of spatial dimensions.

construct_network: This function takes as input the specified node positions and motions, and initial guesses as to where the unspecified nodes may be in spatial coordinates. This function also takes the network connectivity between specified and unspecified nodes. The positions of unspecified nodes are found by minimizing a cost function to satisfy the linearized distance constraints. This function outputs the estimated positions of unspecified nodes, and also the value of the cost function, which the user should verify is sufficiently small to ensure the unspecified node does indeed satisfy distance constraints.

construct_motion: This function takes as inputs the specified node positions and motions, as well as the unspecified node positions as estimated by "construct_network," the network connectivity, and plotting parameters. This function outputs the estimated instantaneous zero-energy motion given the available degrees of freedom of the system. This function also evaluates the error between the desired specified motions, and the reconstructable instantaneous motions in output variable "err." The user should verify that err is sufficiently small to ensure the desired motion is obtained.

sim_motion: This function takes as inputs all node positions in 2D, and the connectivity between them, as well as the total arclength of motion to simulate along the full non-linear trajectory of the available network zero-energy modes. This function also takes as input some initial motion vector. This function simulates the full motion of the network along the non-linear distance constraints using a 4th order Runge-Kutta method by paramterizing network motion as a time variable. This function outputs a plot, as well as the positions of the nodes along this trajectory, and a cost function "fC" evalulated at every point along this trajectory to measure how well the motion satisfies distance constraints. The user should ensure the value of "fC" is sufficiently small to guarantee that the motions do not violate distance constraints.

sim_motion3D: This function is the same as sim_motion, but in 3D
